Add sgx userdoc (#39)
pyscf/pyscf.github.io: source/user/sgx.rst

.. _user_sgx:

Seminumerical Exchange (SGX)
****************************

*Modules*: :mod:`sgx`

The SGX module implements seminumerical computation of the exchange matrix.

Introduction
============

> Direct computation of the Hartree-Fock Exchange matrix in the atomic orbital basis scales poorly with system size. To achieve better scaling, one coordinate of the two-electron integrals is computed analytically, while the other is evaluated on a real-space grid, as proposed by Friesner :cite:`Friesner1985`. The PySCF implementation most closely resembles the chain-of-spheres (COSX) algorithm of Neese et al. :cite:`Neese2009`, but with more conservative grids and without P-junction screening. Overlap fitting is used to reduce aliasing errors :cite:`Izsak2011`. SGX scales as :math:`O(N^2)` with system size, as opposed to the :math:`O(N^4)` scaling of analytical exchange :cite:`Neese2009`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Direct computation of the Hartree-Fock exchange matrix in the atomic orbital basis scales poorly with system size.
To achieve better scaling, one three-dimensional integral in the 6-dimensional two-electron integrals can be computed analytically, while the other can be evaluated on a real-space grid, as proposed by Friesner :cite:`Friesner1985`.
The PySCF implementation resembles the chain-of-spheres (COSX) algorithm of Neese et al. :cite:`Neese2009`, but uses more conservative grids and does not implement P-junction screening.
Overlap fitting is used to reduce aliasing errors :cite:`Izsak2011`.
SGX scales as :math:`O(N^2)` with system size, as opposed to the :math:`O(N^4)` scaling of analytical exchange :cite:`Neese2009`.
```

Usage and Example
=================

> Any :attr:`scf.hf.SCF` object :attr:`mf` can be converted to an equivalent object that computes the Coulomb and Exchange matrices with SGX instead of analytical integration by calling :code:`sgx.sgx_fit(mf)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any :attr:`scf.hf.SCF` object :attr:`mf` can be converted to an equivalent object that computes the Coulomb and exchange matrices with SGX instead of analytical integration by calling :code:`sgx.sgx_fit(mf)`.
```

* :source:`examples/sgx/00-simple_sgx.py`

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/sgx/00-simple_sgx.py

.. code::

  converged SCF energy = -76.0267374704185
  converged SCF energy = -76.0267978618974

> In this case, the error of SGX compared to analytical exchange is about 0.06 mH. The line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the error of SGX compared to analytical exchange is about 0.06 mEh. The line
```

Author: Resolved by 7bd5c1e86528700afd2ea407b3be0d5fa198ba30

.. code::

    mf.with_df.dfj = True

> specifies to compute the Coulomb matrix using Resolution of the Identity (RI) while using SGX for the Exchange matrix.

Reviewer 2: I don't have an opinion on this but isn't this another phrase for density fitting (I might be wrong on this) which seems to be the terminology used in pyscf? Please correct me if I am wrong or ignore if you prefer this phrasing.

Reviewer: Yes; but RI and DF are pretty much interchangeable.

Author: I agree that DF is clearer here though; I will change to DF.

Author: Resolved by 7bd5c1e86528700afd2ea407b3be0d5fa198ba30

Adjustable Parameters
=====================

> Calling the :attr:`sgx_fit` function on an :attr:`scf.hf.SCF` object returns an equivalent :attr:`SGXHF` object with a :attr:`with_df` attribute that handles SGX integration. To use a non-default auxbasis (for :attr:`dfj=True`), :attr:`auxbasis` can be specified in the call to :attr:`sgx_fit`. In addition, there are five main adjustable parameters for this object:

Reviewer: auxbasis -> auxiliary basis

Reviewer: So if `dfj=False` does the code also compute the Coulomb matrix with the seminumerical procedure?

Author: Yes, though the contraction is performed in a different way than for exchange. This might also be default behavior that should be changed in the future. I accidentally did this for a while without ill effects, but I was using large grids. I think seminumerical J matrix construction has been shown in the literature to cause numerical stability issues.

* :attr:`grids_level_i`: The level of a coarse grid to use for initial SCF iterations.

> * :attr:`grids_level_f`: The level of a denser grid to use for final SCF iterations.

Reviewer: The grid level to use for initial / final SCF iterations

Author: Resolved by 7bd5c1e86528700afd2ea407b3be0d5fa198ba30

> * :attr:`grids_thrd`: The grid points at which all atomic orbitals have a value below this threshold are removed from the integration grid.

Reviewer: I would think this controls the threshold at which atomic orbitals are removed from consideration on the grid

Author: I think that might be a more efficient implementation, but that is not how it is currently implemented. See https://github.com/pyscf/pyscf/blob/7be5e015b2b40181755c71d888449db936604660/pyscf/sgx/sgx_jk.py#L96 and https://github.com/pyscf/pyscf/blob/7be5e015b2b40181755c71d888449db936604660/pyscf/sgx/sgx_jk.py#L329. I am going to do some optimization work on the SGX code itself in the future, but in the mean time I think the code only removes grid points if all AOs are below the threshold there. AOs are only screened by S-junction screening at the C level.

Reviewer: Ohhh so that's what it means: grid points where no basis functions are significant are removed; this setting controls the significance cutoff.

* :attr:`grids_switch_thrd`: The threshold for the magnitude of the change in the density matrix that triggers the switch from the initial grid specified by :attr:`grids_level_i` to the final grid specified by :attr:`grids_level_f`.

> * :attr:`blockdim`: The maximum number of grid points to loop over at once. The number of grid points per batch is the minimum of this value and maximum number of points allowed by the max memory settings. The maximum memory can be adjusted by setting the :attr:`max_memory` attribute, which is initially set to :attr:`mol.max_memory`, the max memory setting for the Mole object.

Reviewer 2: The second sentence here ("The number of grid points...") is quite long and I am not sure I understand it correctly.

Reviewer: It's not very long. The problem is that it's missing a word. It should read something along the lines of "The number of grid points per batch is the minimum of `blockmin` and the maximum number of points allowed by the memory available for the calculation."

Author: Resolved by 7bd5c1e86528700afd2ea407b3be0d5fa198ba30

To achieve better scaling, one three-dimensional integral in the 6-dimensional two-electron integrals can be computed analytically, while the other can be evaluated on a real-space grid, as proposed by Friesner :cite:`Friesner1985`.
The PySCF implementation resembles the chain-of-spheres (COSX) algorithm of Neese et al. :cite:`Neese2009`, but uses more conservative grids and does not implement P-junction screening.
Overlap fitting is used to reduce aliasing errors :cite:`Izsak2011`.
SGX scales as :math:`O(N^2)` with system size, as opposed to the :math:`O(N^4)` scaling of analytical exchange :cite:`Neese2009`.

Usage and Example
=================

Any :attr:`scf.hf.SCF` object :attr:`mf` can be converted to an equivalent object that computes the Coulomb and Exchange matrices with SGX instead of analytical integration by calling :code:`sgx.sgx_fit(mf)`.

* :source:`examples/sgx/00-simple_sgx.py`

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/sgx/00-simple_sgx.py

.. code::

  converged SCF energy = -76.0267374704185
  converged SCF energy = -76.0267978618974

In this case, the error of SGX compared to analytical exchange is about 0.06 mEh. The line

.. code::

    mf.with_df.dfj = True

> specifies to compute the Coulomb matrix using Density Fitting (DF) while using SGX for the Exchange matrix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specifies to compute the Coulomb matrix using density fitting (DF-J) while using SGX for the exchange matrix.
```

Adjustable Parameters
=====================

Calling the :attr:`sgx_fit` function on an :attr:`scf.hf.SCF` object returns an equivalent :attr:`SGXHF` object with a :attr:`with_df` attribute that handles SGX integration. To use a non-default auxiliary basis (for :attr:`dfj=True`), :attr:`auxbasis` can be specified in the call to :attr:`sgx_fit`. In addition, there are five main adjustable parameters for this object:

* :attr:`grids_level_i`: The grid level to use for initial SCF iterations.
* :attr:`grids_level_f`: The grid level to use for final SCF iterations.

> * :attr:`grids_thrd`: The grid points at which all atomic orbitals have a value below this threshold are removed from the integration grid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :attr:`grids_thrd`: The grid points where no atomic orbital is significant (has a value greater than this threshold) are removed from consideration.
```
